# GWG Meeting No. 2

**Time**: November 28, 2023 [Tuesday], 8AM to 9:15 AM PST

**Attendees**:

Alex Ni, Andrea Muttoni, Austin Kline, Brian Pistone, Deniz, Dia C, Dongyo Kang, Flovatar, Hunter Dansbury, Jan Bernatik, Josh Hannan, Kshitij Chaudhary, Morgan Page, Pieter Bakhuijzen, Tom Haile, Usopp C, Vishal Changrani, William Mougayar

**Agenda**

1. Overview of [Flow Governance Working Group](https://github.com/onflow/gwg)
2. Welcoming new members with Introductions
3. Highlights and updates from the [previous Meeting](https://github.com/onflow/gwg/blob/main/meetings/GWG-meeting1-Oct31-2023.md)
4. Discussion on [Node Selection Criteria](https://github.com/onflow/gwg/blob/main/meetings/node_selection_criteria.md)
5. Presentation of [FLIPs Tracker](https://github.com/orgs/onflow/projects/37)
6. Community Q&A/ other topics
7. Administrative decisions - meeting frequency, forum thread, discord channel, etc.
8. Next Steps

**Meeting Minutes**

1. **Introduction of Governance Working Group:** GWG and the motivation to set it up was introduced, focused on enhancing community participation and working with other working group to set the guidelines. GWG is open to all Flow community members, and topics of discussion could range from Flow protocol, security and performance parameters, treasury allocation, and community management.
2. **Welcome and Introductions:** Attendees including product managers, developers, and validators in the Flow community briefly described their roles and experiences with Flow.
3. **Updates from the last meeting:** Discussed minutes from the last meeting and solidified the agenda for the current meeting.
4. **Criteria for Selecting Node Operators:** Three-part criteria for node selection was presented, assessing experience, capability, and motivation of node operators. The PR for community members to share inputs was shared. Once passed, Flow Foundation would publish the form for new and interested operators to fill out; the applications would be be brought to the Governance Working Group for discussion and potential approval to join the network.
5. **Discussion on FLIPs (Flow Improvement Proposals):** FLIPs were discussed as a means to bring changes to the protocol, language, and governance on Flow. A summary slide on  status and categories of FLIPs was presented. Decision-making on FLIPs was clarified, currently involving a semi-structured off-chain voting process via discussion on pull requests. 
6. **Tokenomics Dashboard (FlowDiver):** Presented a tokenomics dashboard providing real-time information on supply, validators, stake, and delegated amounts on the network. Noted that the APY calculation on the dashboard is based on annual rewards divided by total stake (i.e., Gross APY), without accounting for operational costs (i.e., Net APY).
7. **Community Q&A:** Discussed relationship with other working groups. GWG to set the governance structure for other groups but may not manage them. Once formalized, GWG moderator will report on the progress of other working groups in each meeting.
8. **Administrative Decisions:**: Discussed meeting time and frequency. Next meeting in January. Members were encouraged to join the forum thread for ongoing communication; Discord channel for governance to be set up.

**Key decisions**

1. The [community feedback PR](https://github.com/onflow/gwg/pull/6) for node selection criteria is now open, and input from community members is encouraged.
2. GWG moderator(s) will establish a process to monitor the progress and accountability of working groups. Once the structure and governance are finalized, all relevant information and links will be published on the Flow website. Subsequently, status updates will be presented in each GWG meeting.
3. Community members are urged to subscribe to the forum topic for all meeting updates and schedules. Additionally, a #Governance channel will be established on Discord.
4. GWG will maintain a monthly meeting schedule until the structure is finalized. The next meeting is scheduled for January (instead of December, due to vacation). A new meeting time (9 am PST instead of 8 am PST) will be arranged to accommodate participants in different time zones.

**Links**

1. [Video Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jZ8jjr2s-RI) of the meeting
2. [Pull Request](https://github.com/onflow/gwg/pull/6) to comment on node selection criteria 
3. [Forum thread](https://forum.flow.com/c/governance/flow-working-groups/40) to stay updated on meeting schedules (please subscribe)
4. [FLIPs tracker](https://github.com/orgs/onflow/projects/37/views/1) for review



